# Hydrogen Production

## Week 6 Reflection
This week we worked on figuring out the more specific needs for our project. We researched extensively the three parts (production, transportation, storage). After doing this we have made a few decisions. The first one is that instead of prioritizing efficient storage, we will prioritize actually making a functioning hydrogen generator. This is because chemical storage gets really complicated and expensive and we don't want to spend a large portion of our limited time on storage when it is not the most important part of our project. We also made the decision to use alkaline electrolysis because of its cost effectivity. To make sure our product is pure hydrogen we made the decisin to also be use a hydroxide transmitting membrane that will make sure the gasses stay separate. We found one potentially very valuable resource in the form of human knowledge. Jason Graetz is an employee of the Department of Energy, and works specifically on green hydrogen and its storage possibilities. To get in contact with him would mean a deeper understanding for all of us on how to approach this project and hydrogen production and storage in general. Other resources we found we well documented projects about compact hydrogen storage and fuel cells for the military conducted by the government. These have lots of great resources within them and are relatively simple to read. Some issues we discovered were difficulty with chemical storage of H2, as well as the membrane we will need for separating the hydrogen from the oxygen within the electrolysis chamber. Chemical storage ends up getting extremely complicated because of the wide variety of options. We currently have a lack of information about how it works, which has hindered us in creating a storage plan. As far as the membrane goes our problem is finding one that has been used before. We know the parameters for it, but there is little documentation out there about possible actual membrane examples. This week we found success in understanding the more complex parts of our project. We focused purely on research this week, and it paid off in the form of knowledge. We know now the exact materials we need to do this project, and we are almost ready to order them. We also have made good connections at American Elements who can sell us the products we need. It was difficult to go from understanding the broad concept of our project to the actual application, but through our thorough research we now have that knowledge. Our plan for next week is to create a plan for our hydrogen production system. This includes specifics such as the type of membrane we will use, vessels to transfer H2, etc.

## Week 7 Reflection
We worked on finding materials to buy for our project. We made decisions on what or what not to buy. For example zirfon - a OH transmitting membrane - we decided not to buy because we couldn't find anywhere to buy it. Instead we decided to buy Fumasep membrane. Another decision we made was whether or not we should buy carbon or graphite electrodes. We ended buying graphite rods because of their better conductivity. We found a resource in the form of a professor at UVA. Dr. Charles Machan helped us answer some questions about membranes and electrolyzers. One issue we discovered is that without a model, it is hard to know exactly what we will be missing when we move on to the next phase of our project. As far as what went well, we now have a nearly completed order list. Getting in contact with Dr. Machan was another success. We encontered many difficulties in many different forms. Some of these include questions about OH transmission, questions about electrolyzers, uncertainty about the vessel we will use for this, etc. Next week we hope to assemble a model for our project.

## Week 8 Reflection
This week we worked on designing a model housing system in onshape. We followed the idea from the pictures max had drew for it. We fully created the model in onshape with holders for the carbon rods and a divider to hold the membrane. A problem we ran into was keeping it from leaking water. There were many places water could leak out of it that would be frustrating to fix at a later date. A possible solution would be to 3D print the boxes then plastic dip them to keep them from leaking water. Another problem is the temperature from water electrolysis might melt the material from the 3D printer so we need to find a material that wont. The PSAT was this week and it was hard to get work done on that day. Next we we will focus on figuring out a model that wouldn't leak water and would fit our design idea.

## Week 9 Reflection
We worked on a housing for our electrolysis that wouldn't melt or leak. We decided that a premade glass container would be best, we decided on a glass beaker as a starting place, as it will not have leakage problems and it will not melt. We started trying to figure out how to add a divider into our container so we could add a membrane that is neccassary for our electrolosis. It became evident that tampering with the glass beaker would damage it, and we had to return it to the chem lab. This became a major challenge for us, as we needed to experinment with how to seal our divider, but we had no container to experiment on, we will figure this out next week. 

## Smart Goals for Q2
1. Create a prototype that includes our laser cut box, divider and a method to electrolyze the water (Everything except the membrane which will take a long time to ship) by winter break, so we are ready to start testing when the membrane arrive. We will mesure this by how many components of the prototype we have assembled. This is definitely in our ability to accomplish, and the biggest holdups we will encounter will likely be time to wait for caulk to dry, and the arrival of certain products. We still need to print a few simple parts, and most of the work we have remaining is assembling the prototype and working out kinks resulting from that. This will help us complete our project because this is likely the most demanding part of our project, and by getting this prototype completed the hardest part of our project will be done, and we will be well on our way to finishing the whole thing.

2. Before thanksgiving break we will finish our onshape design and make sure we have a water tight box that can house electrolosis. We will measure this by the percent of our onshape assembly that is totally complete, combined with the variable of whether our box is watertight or not. We just need to refine our CAD design and we will be able to do this. This will be the next step to creating a working prototype. 

## Week 10 Reflection
This week we figured out how to create a water tight box made of acrylic and sealed with caulk. We had a short week so we did not have much time, but we confirmed our theory about cualk serving as a good seal within an acrylic box. The next thing will be to incorperate our newfound ideas into a prototype for our electrolosys machine. 


## Week 11 Reflection
This week we worked a lot on modeling the realistic struggles of our project. We modeled how the membrane is going to fit into our box, how we will secure it in place, and how we will be able to take it out to easily replace it. We decided on a one box design  with a divider in the middle that will fit the membrane within it. We didn't find any new resources, but we did utilize our teacher resources efficiently, asking for help on design ideas frequently. Issues we ran into were time, and envisioning how our box will work outside of a model. Something that went well was us making good progress on the model. It was difficult cutting when we weren't completely certain on our design, which made it so that we didn't have a lot of physical progress. Next week we plan to finish our design and start cutting.

## Week 12 Reflection
We tested the effectiveness of caulk to create watertight seems in the acrylic box that we made. It worked very well and there was no leakage. This was a short week so we did not have much time to work especially with group members missing every day. next week we will finish our CAD design and start lasercutting the real box. 

## Week 13 Reflection
This week we worked on getting our box fully set up to be water tight. We ran into a problem with the divider walls not having holes in them for the membrane. That issue has been fixed and we are building the box to make everything water tight. Another problem we had the divider walls were too close together making it hard to caulk the walls inplace. These holes in in the walls should help with that too. Once we get the membrane and graphite rods we can fully set up our box and complete the prototype model. Next week we will keep working on making the box the best it can be for when we get those items.

## Week 14 Reflection
This week we started looking for ways to store the hydrogen and how to make a fuel cell so we dont have to buy one making our project more expensive. There haven't been problems this week just research. We found easy ways to make fuel cells and came up with a design for our storage. We are going to use a water/soda bottle to store the hydrogen. Next week we will start gathering materials for the fuel cell and storage and continue exploring ways to store the hydrogen.

## Week 15 Reflection
This week we have been a bit stuck due to the lack of materials we need to complete our project. We have been doing research on the utilization side of our project, and learned how to make our own fuel cell without having to buy an expensive one. This week has been a research week. Next week we will get the materials we need to cotinue our project including platinum wire and Flexseal.

## Week 16 Reflection
We wrote up a way to transport and eventually store our hydrogen without mixing it with oxygen. This decision was in tandem with the decision to caulk the graphite rod and holder instead of using an O-ring. We didn't know how we were going to safely transport the hydrogen. We fixed this by coming up with a comprehensive plan using water. 

## Week 17 Reflection
This week we tested if we could make hydrogen in our box and we successfully did. Our carbon rods produced the oxygen and hydrogen. We realized we dont have a plan for what we are doing with the hydrogen so now we are now figuring out how we are going to store and what we are going to use the hydrogen for. Next week we will have a plan on how to store the hydrogen and start designing/making it.

## Project Reflection
We have made considerable progress on this project, and we are mostly on schedule with what we had planned at the beginning of this project. Our biggest roadblocks so far have been the arduous process of laser cutting the walls for our box, realizing they didn't fit, redoing it, assembling and caulking them incorrectly, starting over, etc. Once we finally moved past that roadblock though, our productivity skyrocketed and we are currently incredibly close to producing hydrogen in the final assembly we designed. That takes us to the next major step of our project: Polishing. We want to be able to market this device at a cheap price, and that means our project will need to look like a product. Some progress we have made on this goal includes the creation of a marketing slideshow, recruitment of a fellow student for branding, networking to find help in this field, and more. Overall, this project is looking like it will be a success, and as long as we keep up this level of productivity I believe we can really make this happen.

## Week 18 Reflection
We worked on our semester 1 presentation.

## Week 19 Reflection
We did a lot of testing and it worked!!!!!!! We produced a signifigant amount of hydrogen using the power supply to power it. We will continue to use the power supply for testing, however we do need to find an easier and cheaper power source for the final product. We are now going to work on capturing the hydrogen via aquarium tubing. We ran into issues of leaking but they are relatively easy to fix right now, however we may need to redisign the way our box fits together.

## Week 20 Reflection
We develpoed our idea of our showcase of hydrogen combustion power and found how we would spark it. We are not sure how explody the hydrogen will be so we will need to experiment with the volitility of the hydrogen we produce, or more precisley the HHO we make. WE also redesigned our funnel and modeled it in onshape. Next week we will work on furthering our combustion showcase`

## Week 21 Reflection
Modeled combustion device and printed it and figured out core issues with our design. We also made nozzles on the funnel for the tubes to attach on to. We will continue to research how to create our hydrogen power showcase.

## Week 22 Reflection
This week we added a nozzel onto our funnel and printed it to fit our tubing. We bought tubing and flex seal and have fully sealed our box and it has no leaks now. We are now figuring out the best way to fill the tube with water to eliminate the air that would contaminate our hydrogen. Right now we need a bigger bucket/box to fill with water. Next week we will get a bigger bottle and start prepreations for testing our storage system.

## Week 23 Reflection
This week we worked on putting the finishing touches on our whole system. We decided to make a launch platform instead of the cap idea, as well as deciding to seal the box with flex seal. No new resources were discovered this week. We discovered that the pop cap explosion system would not be able to contain our hydrogen, as well as discovered that our funnel needs better support with the tube attached to it. We completed a lot this week, such as sealing the box, assembling all our materials we will need, putting in new rods, as well as finalizing the ideas behind each step of the kit. The difficulty as usual lied in the lack of time available. We had no time on Monday, and that left us with only Tuesday and Thursday to make progress. Next week we plan to have completed the prototype and start on making it into a final design

## Week 24 Reflection
We started creating an instruction booklet and implemented a lot of changes in our design of our box. We changed box dimensions on onshape, removed unnesacary holes, added fill lines to the box, graphite rod changes, and found better heatshrink to fit rods.
## Week 25 Reflection
We have done a lot of house keeping things like starting an instruction booklet and refining our method of transporting the hydrogen. We have also refined our funnel in order to be more compatable with the tubing. We have also decided to use a pump to reomove air from the tubing.

## Week 26 reflection
We finished designing and laser cut our new box. We made sure everything fit together well and filed it. We taped the walls in the shape of windows so when we sealed the box we would see through some of it. We also printed new rod holders and funnel. We also made our new graphite rod assembly. WE will continue to flexseal our box to make in water tight

## Week 27 reflection
We flexsealed most of our box, this took a while because we need to do each wall individually and wait 24 hours for it to dry. We also resisiged our funnel to make it more sturdy so it wouldnt break aseasily. We will continue to seal our box, but we ran out of flex seal. In the future we should of sealed it in groups of parts so it would dry much faster instead of adding one or two parts at a time. 

## Week 30 Reflection
This week we cut out a new box after our first one broke. We assembled the new box and have a plan to seal just the outside so the box doesn't crack. In the old box everything worked and the hydrogen went through the tube. The only problem was it getting stuck because the tube was angled down. We have fixed this by raising the tube so the hydrogen is rising. Next week we will seal the box and test.
